---
layout: post
title: Vienna April 2026
date: 2026-05-03 22:50:00
description: Travel report for a short trip to Vienna in April 2026
tags: photography, travel
categories: photography, travel
thumbnail: assets/img/vienna_T.jpg
---

If you were to do one of those moronic street surveys, observable on TikTok or second-rate late night shows, asking what is the city of love most people would probably answer Paris. This is wrong, atleast for my girlfriend and me. For us it is undoubtadly Vienna. We both love the city and our first trip together was to Vienna. Since then, we more or less regularly go on a short trip that usually includes a couple of museums, a visit to the Burgtheater, and a number of Kaiserspritzer. At the end of April 2026 it was again time to take refuge in Vienna for a couple of days. Having recently updated my camera setup with two new lenses, the Fuji XF 55-200mm and the XF 35mm I was excited to try them both out. 

These first few images were taken on a short hike/walk from Grinzing through the vinyards to Nussbaum, mostly with the 55 - 200mm. 

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/vienna_1.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/vienna_2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/vienna_3.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/vienna_4.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/vienna_5.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

For our visit to the Burgtheater we watched "Die Verlorene Ehre der Katharina Blum", written by Heinrich Böll in 1974 and directed by Bastian Kraft. While the criticism of press and sensationalism that are already obvious in the original play this adaption also focuses on the mysoginistic undertones in the questioning of and reporting on Katharina Blum. The production employs prerecorded videos of the three actresses that play all the different characters simultaniously. To me, this, and the overall presentation as a retrospective, envoke a strong association with True Crime formats (series, podcasts, etc), providing an ironic/meta-level showcasing of where the sensationalist reporting of some of these formats could lead. The actresses do a phenomenal job of live-synchronization for the pre-recorded videos and can convey the despair Katharina Blum must have felt.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/vienna_6.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

We also went to the Prater, having fun on some of the rides and observing teenagers on first dates.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/vienna_7.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/vienna_8.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/vienna_9.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

On our last day, we visited the Zentralfriedhof, the 7th largest cementary by area in the world, and the 2nd largest by N of people burried (ca. 3 million). The scale is incredible and some of the graves are true artworks and staggering in their size and pompousness. As the cementary is actually too large for Vienne it offers a lot of green space that local wildlife can enjoy even more than we did. 

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/vienna_10.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/vienna_11.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/vienna_12.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>